# optimized_fighting
An R project to determine who is an optimal secondary character in fighting games using matchup knowledge webscraped from https://www.eventhubs.com/tiers/.

## What are fighting games and what is this?
Basically, fighting games are zero-sum videogames that often pit two players against each other in virtual combat. There are many subgenres of fighting games but a common theme across them is multiple characters to select as fighters. One of the goals in developing fighting games is to make characters have unique playstyles, this is to give players more options and to generate unique character interactiosn. While this makes the games more interesting it also results in purposefully unequal gameplay as different characters have different tools. Therefore whenever two different characters fight eachother, often one character has the edge over the other in the "matchup" as they either have better tools or their playstyle/gameplan is more effective against the character they are playing against (Zoners beat Grapplers who beat Rush Down who beat Zoners). As a result each character has a unique matchup againast every other character in the game and understanding these matchups is often vital to doing well. However, some people often find there are matchups so bad for their character that they decide to pick up a second character to play those unfavorable matches with. And finding the best characters to cover another characters weaknesses is the exact reason I made this shiny app.

## What does this Shiny App have?
This Shiny App has several functions that I will list below:
* A interactive matchup heatmap for 40+ fighting games:
 * Using data gathered from Eventhubs this is a visual representation of the character matchups. In the context of a matchup (5-5, 6-4, 4-6), the character on the X axis is on the right and the character on the Y axis is on the left and the more yellow the color the more favorable the outcome. To normalize the analysis across games I turned all of the numbers into Z-scores.
* Secondary Selector:
  * This tool allows one to pick a game and a character to find out who the best secondary character would be based on matchups.
  * Secondary Score: The secondary score is generated by a formula that has two possible options.
    * Complimentary Characters: An option that finds the character that is most "complimentary" to the one selected. This formula goes through every character in the matchup matrix and subtracts their matchup score from the main character's matchup score. So if the secondary character has a matchup agaisnt another character that is good (say a score of 7) when compared to the main character (say a score of 4), the resulting number would be -3. We then change the sign of all the differences (the number would now be 3) and then sum across all matchups. We do this for every character in the matchup chart. This results in a number that we can order the characters on based on how they perform in matchups relative to the main character. We believe that the complimentary character formula is best for picking two characters that cover each others weaknesses well.
    * Pocket Characters: This formula follows the same idea as complimentary characters, but with one change. It only considers matchups that the secondary character does better in. This is done by removing all initial positive scores when you find the difference between the main character and the secondary character. Those scores are added up similairly, however the secondary score cannot be lower than 0, and 0 means that there are no matchups where the secondary character is better than the main character.
 * Secondary Tier list: The order of characters based on the secondary score
 * Secondary Rank Change: The purpose of secondary rank change is to deal with the inherent problem of this project. No matter who you're playing, logically speaking the best secondary for you to pick up in fighting games is normally the best character in the game, because they have the best matchups across the entire cast. We realized this problem early on, and so we came up with this solution. 

## Data source:
 Eventhubs tier lists are generated through players voting on how favorable or unfavorable a given matchup is for a character in a game. You vote by giving how much in favor a matchup is eg. an even matchup is 5-5, a favored matchup is 6-4 and a lopsided matchup is 8-2. I heavily suggest exploring the website as it is a great source of information, an account is required to vote, but if you have a unique understanding of a matchup its a good place to vote.


## Goals
- [x] Get a simple version of the analysis for a single character from a single game (Birdie)
- [x] Get the matchup matrix for a single game (SFV)
- [x] Find the best secondary for a single character (Birdie)
- [x] Find the best secondary for a single game (SFV)
- [X] Acquire data for how many votes are used in each matchup
- [X] make seperate tabs for each quest eg. Best secondary, game heatmap, game character, secondary chart?
- [X] Add Jon's formula as an optional secondary selector
- [X] Get the shiny app to work on just one game (SFV)
- [ ] Contact reddit?
- [ ] For SFV: Have an option in the shiny for official data or eventhub
